# **Game Outline**

The player will start as a Convict that has chosen to complete their sentence by fulfilling a contract for "The Consortium". The Consortium is THE group of companies that run the universe, they complete a range of colony projects including (but not limited to): Commercial projects (those that are there only to produce goods and make a profit), Science projects (those that are only deployed to the system with anomalies or unknowns) and Terraforming Colony projects (those that are designed to make planets living for humans and balance resources to be self-sufficient and most importantly most profitable).

The player will be tasked with a Terraforming Colony Project and heavily monitored and assisted at defined milestones i.e. once the planet is Liveable The Consortium will provide a transport link back to COMMAND System, by The Consortium. The goal for the player is to fulfil the contract obligations set out by The Consortium to buy themselves freedom. The Consortium Freedom Project (as it is known) has few and far between successes. Your goal is to be one of them by producing a liveable habitat. The last goal of the contract will be to raise the colonies' monetary value to meet The Consortium's contract demands.

Once the contract is fulfilled the player will then progress onward to found a company as part of the consortium. The consortium will make this possible by offering the player a range of loans with different terms. The money from this loan allows the player to set up a company that does exactly what all the other companies in The Consortium do, turn space rocks into products, money and energy.

Once the player has founded a company they can then purchase rights to Systems, Planets and other space objects (asteroids, moons and other resource deposits) from The Consortium directly (later the Consortium market will be open to players to trade inter-consortium and later the open market to trade with independent entities (late-game)). Once purchased the player then has to run the game loop on each of these, though how that is done is up to the player they can complete one project at a time or multiple.

The goal at this stage for the player is to turn the recently purchased objects into something valuable through mining, production, storage and more. This is to meet the demands of the borrowing contract the player took out earlier, and become self-sustainable through a range of projects with different goals. Players will see progression through tech trees that will build progression in, the choices the player makes on their tech tree will determine what types of projects their company can take on and what they can do within said projects.

For example: if a player buys an asteroid as their first object they will likely have to work on just mining capabilities and transport. As asteroids don't have large spaces to host manufacturing, though some small manufacturing space could be bought and used in CONTROL System - this will cost the player though, and it only makes sense if it is considerably more profitable than the raw resources. The player may choose to focus elsewhere on tech though to allow for more complex future projects.

Once the player has completed multiple projects, made money and paid The Consortium back they will enter the late game stage. Here the overall goal is to control The Consortium by growing your company, interacting with other companies both in and out of The Consortium and making moves that allow the player to take control of The Consortium either through purchasing it after becoming independent from it - out growing it, banding together with other companies (where you are still the most valuable) in order to overthrow The Consortium, or Replacing it with your own Consortium after becoming independent.

The late game will mostly proceed how the rest of the game has however the goals shift but the method to achieve them doesn't - the player simply has to increase their company worth and to do this they must have resources: ships, machines, products, system and more in their possession.

The game "ends" at the point the player controls or replaces the consortium, however, they can play on to complete tech trees, man and complete more missions - as each one will still have its own progress as per any previous missions. They can continue to buy up resources and increase company size, add taxes and laws to companies within their newly owned Consortium. Overall game progress stops and it is left to players if they want to play on or not. Motivation to play would only be driven through global stats of other ACTUAL players - who can make the most valuable company (see below).

For players looking for an exit they can choose an option to retire in which they would sell what they have built and no longer be allowed to progress in this save. However they will be able to access a history and view a range of data associated with the playthrough at any time from the main menu - these will also be made available through a web interface of some kind along with other global stats and data.
